---
title: "NoBuild Javascript for a Deno on Roda experiment"
layout: post
---

Deno has my interest. 🦕🛼 

`$ deno compile` - what's not to love?

Since the release of Deno v2 and having fiddled around with bun in a pet project, I can't help but think: Can I use Deno's tool in some helpful ways?

Following my GitHub you could see, that I enjoy working with [Roda](https://roda.jeremyevans.net/). My current undercover side project became one of the biggest codebases, I've ever written for myself. And JS is lacking tests. 🤙 #yolo #e2elifeguard

- [Roda](https://roda.jeremyevans.net/)
- [Rodauth](https://rodauth.jeremyevans.net/)
- Vanilla JS
- [HTMX](https://htmx.org/)
- MapboxJS

What parts of Deno could be useful in this context? \
The pieces that somehow spoke to me were:

- deno fmt
- deno lint
- deno test

Could Deno remove the need for setting up and keeping up to date with eslint and prettier? \
Maybe I wouldn't have to setup and maintain jest or mocha even.

## Path to NoBuild

Linting and formatting is straightforward. I've added a `deno fmt` and `deno lint` to my justfile. 

```make
test-js:
  deno test spec_js

test-js-watch:
	deno test --watch spec_js

lint-js:
	deno lint public/js
	deno lint --rules-exclude=no-window,no-window-prefix,no-global-assign assets/js

test-js:
	deno test spec_js/**/*test.*{js,ts,jsx,tsx}
```

This rules-excude will prevent Deno from complaining about global variables like `window` and `document`. This needs to be good enough for now.

Roda already ships with an asset bundling plugin. It's a simple plugin that takes all your assets and bundles them into a single file. Yet some parts of the Javascript parts are becoming more business logic heavy and will benefit from unit testing. Here's how Deno steps in.

I've created a `spec_js` folder in the root of my project. This is where I'll put all my JS tests. 

```javascript
import { assertEquals } from "jsr:@std/assert";
import { Elvis } from "../public/js/rock-and-roll-superstar.js";

Deno.test("assert Elvis is in the house", () => {
  const elvis = new Elvis();
  assertEquals(elvis.pelvis() , "Elvis is in the house!");
});
```

I know this is a bit unusual. \
But so is using Roda. \
Deno v2 won't change its APIs for quite some time (🤞). And if it will ... I mean it'll break just the tests... right? 

> Rewriting the js test suite is easy. \
> It's a system rewrite that fails. \
> And why haven't you used Rust in the first place?
> 
> \- Charles Ponzi
